
PROJECT DURATION FROM 2nd JUNE TO 2nd JULY.

TOPIC -- Converting the pdf files into markdown files using Gemini

DATE - 03-06-25 
I have done project setup.
I have created two folders Input-files_pdfs and Input-files_converted-md. And in the folder Input-files_pdfs i have added three pdfs. 
These pdf can be later converted in markdown file.

DATE - 04-06-25
I have installed some extra libraries like --
1. PyMuPDF - It is used for reading and extracting text from pdf.
2. python-dotenv - To load the API key from .env
3. PyPDF2 - Used for PDF reading
And list out all the libraries installed in the environment using pip list command.

DATE - 05-06-25
I have created a new file (.env) in root directory for storing API key
.env = .env is a hidden environment file used to store sensitive information like API keys 
(e.g., Gemini API key)
Database credentials
Secret tokens

DATE - 06-06-25
Created 2 more files inside Secret
1. converter.py - extract text from pdf
2. gemini_helper.py - to securely fetch api and logic to convert text into markdown
and understand the concept of using these files.

DATE - 08-06-25
Created Gemini API and test it using genrativeai module.

DATE - 09-06-25
written the code in converter.py 
I have import PyPDF2 library which is used to deal with pdf files. 
It can perform task like read, extract text, merge, split, rotate pages, and perform other operations on PDF documents.
It reads the pdf file from given folder and extract all the text from it. 

DATE - 10-06-25
Basic PDF Extraction in main.py - Added PDF reading and text extraction logic in main.py
Wrote basic code in main.py to ---
1. Load a single PDF (Ikigai.pdf) using PyPDF2.
2. Extract text from all pages.
3. Print the full extracted content to console.
I have done this to verify that PDF reading and text extraction using PyPDF2 is working correctly.

DATE - 11-06-25
Modify the code by moving PDF extraction logic to converter.py

I have created a new file converter.py
Moved the extract_text_from_pdf(filename) function from main.py to converter.py.
Updated main.py to import the function from converter.py.
This is done to maintain cleaner, modular code and don't make it look messy.

DATE - 12-06-25
Implemented CLI File Selection using Inquirer.

written the code that let user to select a file from the command line using inquirer library 
This helps to create the interactive menu for selecting the file.
Then modified main.py
This shows all the pdf files and inquirer.checkbox allow user to select the pdf file among the list
Then the text is extracted from the selected pdf file.

DATE - 13-06-25
Created Gemini API key and test it in CLI(Printit in cli).
Now i am testing it in another file test.py 

DATE - 14-06-25
Gemini SDK integrated into project structure. 

I have successfully integrated Google Gemini SDK into the project and installed python-dotenv to manage API keys securely.
Loaded API key from .env file by using function --
convert_text_to_markdown(text) this helps to convert extracted text into Markdown format
This is done by using : model = genai.GenerativeModel("gemini-pro") 
And then tested initial API call to ensure the integration is successful.

DATE - 15-06-25
Today, I focused on fixing the Gemini model integration issue.

While testing the Gemini API, I found a 404 models/gemini-pro not found error, which indicated a problem with the model version that i have been using. 
After diagnosing the error I found that the latest SDK requires fully qualified model names. 
Then I updated the model initialization from genai.GenerativeModel("gemini-pro") to genai.GenerativeModel("models/gemini-1.5-pro-latest") which successfully resolved the issue. 
After making this correction, the Gemini model was initialized properly, and the API calls started functioning without any errors.

DATE - 16-06-25
Today I faced Quota Exceeded Error while calling Gemini API.
Today i tested Gemini API with the real PDF data.
During multiple consecutive API calls i received: 
"google.api_core.exceptions.ResourceExhausted: 429 You exceeded your current quota"
Then i researched and found that Gemini free-tier limits request count per day and per minute is exceeded.
So I have to wait for 24 hours for free limits.

DATE - 17-06025
Switched Gemini Model to Flash to handle quota limits
Today I faced recurring quota limit errors (429 ResourceExhausted) while working with the default gemini-pro model. 
After researching the Gemini model options I discovered that gemini-1.5-flash-latest is optimized for lighter and faster use-cases and comes with higher free-tier quotas. 
To fix this, I modified the gemini_helper.py file and updated the model initialization line to:
model = genai.GenerativeModel("models/gemini-1.5-flash-latest")
